
*Nov. 14, 2024 - 9:41 p.m.*
*Italy - In an unspecified place (intentionally)*

**Reversing the balance of power**
**to increase people's independence**

The essence of Karl Marx's theory is: *he who owns the means of production, commands* [1]. Today it has been updated to: ***he who owns the data, commands***. This is *dataism* [2] according to historian Yuval Noah Harari. Answering the question: who owns it? is much more complex than it seems at first glance.

I turn to you who are reading. Could you tell me **who owns your data?** One thing is certain: you own it, after all, it's yours, right? Okay, but **who has a copy of your data?** I'll try to answer that: your family members, friends, co-workers and acquaintances. Let's not forget the government agencies of the nation where you live, private companies and large technology companies. There are those who use them to communicate with you, to sell you a product/service, to do statistics and analysis, or to profile you in order to show you ads to condition your purchasing choices. Could you tell me who they are, how many they are, and what data they have? How did they get it? Did you provide it to them voluntarily, did they ask you for it and if so for what purposes? What are they doing with it now? 

I know, I asked a question you can't answer. To add to it, I have another one: **what data do you have?** I'll try again. The biographical and physical ones, the contact information, and any other information that doesn't fall into the first two categories. Now it's your turn to answer. Could you tell me how many and which of these are in your online profiles? For some you will be able to answer, but could you do it for all of them?

I understand that this is getting difficult but, unfortunately for you, I am not finished. Third and final question: **who are you?** To introduce yourself could you give me your business card, live, or a social profile of you, remotely. Would the latter tell everything about you or only part of you? Do you have a social media presence? Do you use different communication services? Where do I find all this contact information? Is there a single profile where you present yourself across the board? Unless you have a site you are unlikely to provide me with a single link. **Our online identity is in a thousand pieces**, which in itself is not a problem, except that putting all these pieces back together is complicated.

Managing the data in those profiles is even more so. We are constantly changing, and with us so is the contact information. **Imagine having to change even one piece of data among that: your e-mail address, for example. You would have to update the data everywhere**. Inform all your contacts and update it in all the online profiles and services you use. Short summary of previous installments: you don't remember which and how many of those services are and whether that information is up to date or not.

After this list of variables it becomes increasingly difficult to answer the questions above. **The data is yours, it is in your possession, but it is no longer your exclusive possession and never will be**. Not that this is a problem, however, the fact that you have no record of who has a particular piece of data, how they obtained it, why they have a copy, and how you can continue to update that data if it changes or ask to revoke its use is. **Beyond mere possession everything else is out of your control**.

If you are wondering, the answer is no. **We have not lost control of our data, in truth we never had it and we voluntarily gave it away for different reasons**. First and foremost **our trust has been betrayed** and the confirmations came with cases like the **Facebook-Cambridge Analytica** scandal [3]. Even when trust is intact, **security is not adequately ensured**, and in recent years you will have read or heard many reports of **data breaches** [4]. There are companies that have data that they should not have, that they may not have obtained from you but from third parties where you have given consent, knowingly or not. Private companies have realized that there is profit to be made from that data and they try to hoard as much of it as possible. We have provided our data in the hope of doing business and making deals only to find out that it ended up in a box in a corporate spreadsheet or in a marketing and sales funnel, which maybe we or some of our colleagues in the company also do. I know, it's very hypocritical, but it's true. We surrendered our data in exchange for 10 percent off the price of some product/service we wanted, as a result of conditioning an online marketing campaign aimed at a specific target audience in which we fit 100 percent.

**Those who have the data want to continue to be in charge**. Private corporations and governments have it and through it they can and want to control us, each in their own way and for their own purposes. Over the past fifty years, technology companies have grown into the Big Tech we know today (**Apple**, **Amazon**, **Google**, **Meta**, **Microsoft**, etc...). Governments initially did not realize the exploitative capabilities of the data they were collecting. In recent years they are regulating them, in defense of the security and privacy rights of citizens, but also to take back the control they ceded to them. They are developing**&#32;digital identities**, such as the European Union's **EUDI Wallet** [5] planned for 2026, that in the next few years you may be forced to use to access your online accounts. Control would shift from tech companies to governments through laws, and Big Tech will have to choose whether to comply, shut down in that country or go out of business. These entities would impose very strong pressures on individuals, persuasive on the part of the former and coercive on the part of the latter. Mine is not a total indictment of them: these are actions that can be positive or negative, depending on several factors. In any case, people do not seem to have much say in this overall picture and are forced to submit to decisions made from above.

**How did we get to this point?** It all started with the exchange of **business cards**. The contact information printed on those paper rectangles exchanged during business meetings soon turned into data in smartphone address books, on social media, in corporate **databases** or those for training **LLMs** [6] or, even worse, on the **dark web** [7]. You used to get only unwanted advertising in your mailbox. Today you get calls from call centers, promotional text messages, subscriptions to newsletters you never requested, spam emails, messages from strangers on social networks, etc... **Our privacy has been hacked, and we are complicit in it**.

**Can we do anything to change this?** Good question, isn't it? I don't have an answer, unfortunately, but I have an idea. We need a registry, not distributed like the **blockchain** [8], but more like **Web 3.0** [9] to make sure that each of us can take back, at least in part, that control that we have ceded to others. I envision a world where you have **a profile or digital identity** that is owned by you and not created by you but held and controlled by a third party. You know who has a copy of your data, what data they have, how they got it, why they have it, and finally you know that you can update, add to, or request its removal with a single click...with significant benefits for everyone.

Those who currently have ownership will also benefit significantly, but in return **they will have to cede control, not to another company or government but to each of us**. Corporate databases will have first-hand, always up-to-date, automated data. Big Tech will comply with various security and privacy regulations and will have users who are more trusting of their use of that data because they will keep a record of every piece of data granted, modified or revoked.

The statement: ***he who owns the data, commands*** is, in my opinion, to be updated again. **The value of a piece of data does not lie in its ownership**, as all of our data is shared with others (individuals, companies and governments). If you share a piece of data with me, such as your e-mail address, we both own it. If a piece of data is fake, wrong or out of date, it has no value because it cannot be used. **The value of a piece of data lies in its veracity, and only the rightful owner can guarantee its authenticity through full control** (creation, modification, sharing and deletion). Therefore, in my opinion, the correct statement *should* be: ***who has control of the data, commands***. The subjunctive is a must since, only if it were accepted by all, would it become the standard in data management.

To make this a reality,**&#32;we need to overturn the balance of power to increase people's independence**. In this specific case on contact information, in favor of the rightful owners and against those who manipulate the data market. This project, and all the other ideas related to it, converge on the importance of the individual by putting platforms in the background. It is therefore **a mission**, **a crusade**, **a call to arms**, calling on individuals to **take back control over their own data**. To do this, we want to develop a **privacy-oriented ecosystem** in which, **Meishi**, stands as a single point of entry and alternative to current address book apps in which you can have sovereignty and control over your contact information.

I know, the copies of your data held by *others* are so many and go far beyond just contact information, but if you want to wage a war you have to start with a first battle, and we – yes, you read that right, we, because I am not alone – have chosen this one because it is among the most difficult and important ones to fight today. There are so many realities, large and small, fighting every day to advance this cause, with all our appreciation for their efforts, but if we unite we will be stronger than all the other forces in the field right now.

This manifesto **is not for everyone but only for those who are ready to make a change in their lives**, perhaps a small one but one that could prove significant. It is for those who are beginning to cherish values such as the **security** and **privacy** of what the data represent, i.e., their **identity**.

*Marco Orlandin & Marco Parisi*

***

**Appendix**

*[1] The Marxian theory of value was first expounded by Karl Marx in his 1847 work Misery of Philosophy, and then expanded upon in the first book of The Capital.*

*[2] Dataism is a term that has been used to describe the mindset or philosophy created by the emerging significance of Big data.* *It was first used by David Brooks in The New York Times in 2013.* *More recently, the term has been expanded to describe what social scientist Yuval Noah Harari has called an emerging ideology or even a new form of religion in which the “flow of information” is the “supreme value.”*

*[3] Facebook-Cambridge Analytica, year 2018, 87 million users involved.* *Other cases of data misuse:* *Google+, year 2018, 500 thousand users involved.* *Clearview AI, year 2019, billions of images collected.* *TikTok, years 2020-2022, billions of users involved (exact figure not specified).*

*[4] In cybersecurity, a data breach or data leak is defined as the intentional or unintentional dissemination, in an untrusted environment, of protected or private/confidential information.* *Incidents of this type range from cyber attacks for some form of personal gain, associated with organized crime, political activists or national governments, to careless abandonment of computer equipment or storage media and sources not attackable by hackers.* *Data breaches can involve financial information such as credit and debit card details, banking data, personal health information (PHI), personally identifiable information (PII), trade or business secrets, or intellectual property.*

*[5] The EU Digital Identity Wallet, also known as EUDI Wallet, is designed as a method for European citizens and businesses to authenticate their identity, using their digital identity for both public and private sector interactions.* *Users can store various digital documents within the wallet, and use them to access private platforms, such as social networks.*

*[6] A large language model, also known by the English large language model (abbreviated as LLM), is a type of language model remarkable for being able to achieve general scope language understanding and generation.* *LLMs acquire this capability by employing huge amounts of data to learn billions of parameters (on the order of billions) in training and consuming large computational resources in operation.*

*[7] The dark web is a small part of the deep web; it is the dark part of the Internet that cannot be reached by classic search engines because it overlaps with normal networks and private network architectures, making it very difficult to access, and thus allowing illegal material to be hidden and traded.*

*[8] A blockchain is a database in which individual records, called “blocks,” are linked together using cryptography.* *Blocks can only be added to the database, not changed or deleted.* *This ensures the immutability and unchangeability of the recorded data, making the blockchain suitable, for example, for recording cryptocurrency transactions.*

*[9] In computer science, Web 3.0 is an idea for a new iteration of the World Wide Web that incorporates concepts such as: decentralization, blockchain technologies, and the token-based economy.*